So we get our app.js file,
we get these configuration files.
Now it's time to convert this to a TypeScript file.
For this we can change the extension here to app dot ts,
and now we can use TypeScript features in here.
But automatically,
you see that I'm getting an error here
cannot find name require.
Now, we also thankfully get a suggestion on how to fix this.
You need to understand
that this require method is only available
when we're running this code with Node.
If we would want to run it in the browser,
this does not exist.
Now TypeScript does not know
where we plan to run this code,
and my IDE has built in TypeScript support
and therefore it detects
that TypeScript will not know whether it exists or not.
So to let TypeScript know that this exists,
we can simply run npm install dash dash save dash dev
to install something as a dependency
that's only used during development at types slash node.
Now this at types thing here is important.
On npm, you will find many at types packages.
These are packages
which provide TypeScript translations
for JavaScript features you could say.
They contain code that allows TypeScript
to understand a certain library,
a certain package or a certain commands,
and with at types node,
the thing is that if we install it,
we can use Node.js specific syntax
in our TypeScript files,
because this dependency will provide TypeScript
with the translation of this to JavaScript,
and in this case,
it will just let TypeScript know that this function here
will exist because we're building
a Node application you could say.
So we can hit enter here
and this will now it install this package,
and you see the error is now gone.
The reason for that is that
if we dig into this types node folder,
here in the end,
we got a dts file,
we get a bunch of dts files actually,
which provide all these core node modules
translated to TypeScript,
and it's really just translations
from TypeScript to JavaScript.
So here you don't find the entire node code
re-written in TypeScript.
Instead, these are really just instructions
which TypeScript is able to understand
so that it knows how to convert your TypeScript code
to valid JavaScript code.
In this example here,
it would simply keep the code as it is
because it would know that this code
is valid JavaScript code if executed with Node.
Will use more of those at types packages.
Because for example with Express the thing is,
if I add a dot here,
I get no auto completion.
My IDE doesn't know
that I can listen on the app here on this app object.
Now that's not horrible,
our code would run.
But it would be nice if we would get this extra support
by the IDE.
So if TypeScript would understand
that we have a listen method.
This would also ensure
that we can't pass in invalid data.
For example, if we think that listen works like this,
and it wants an object with the port here,
then this is an error we might wanna catch,
and currently, if I run tsc here to compile all files,
this compiles just fine.
Because TypeScript does not understand
how this listen method looks like,
which arguments it wants
and how it works,
and because of that,
it just accepts this code.
Now we can make TypeScript aware of the express package
just as we made it aware of the node runtime
in general by installing another types package
with npm install dash dash safe dash dev at types,
and now it's slash express,
and for a lot of popular third party libraries,
you will find such types packages.
We find it for Express,
but you essentially find it
for all major libraries out there.
There are TypeScript translations available
for all major JavaScript libraries
always under this at types slash,
and then the library name package.
So for now, it enter this installs
to types to type definitions
for the express library.
Now that alone won't do the trick though,
as you can tell,
I still don't get an error,
I still don't get auto completion.
Because installing the types like this is not enough.
It was enough for a Node
which is our general code we're writing.
But it's not enough for this third party library
which we're importing like this,
and the import syntax is the problem.
By default, TypeScript is tuned for web apps
running in the browser,
and they are this import syntax would not be available.
So that's not the default import syntax it expects
when it comes to combining multiple files.
We can change the expectations
by TypeScript in a tsconfig.json file.
Their module should indeed be set to commonjs.
But also add the module resolution config
and set this to node here,
and while we're at it,
let's also change the targets to es six
so that we compile our code to more modern JavaScript,
which Node.js is capable of executing.
Now with that,
let's go back to app.ts
and all the change code in one little other detail,
and that's here for the import.
Instead of this import syntax,
write import express equals require express
or alternatively, you can now also switch
to another import syntax,
which normally is not supported like this in Node.js,
you can import express from express.
Now this is a import syntax you know
from the client side,
you know from the browser in the end.
This is how you typically import files from other files
into this file in client side code.
In Node.js, by default you use that require syntax.
Now with TypeScript,
you can enable this syntax
and TypeScript accepts this syntax.
But if you then compile your code,
if you run tsc,
you will see that in the result in the end
does looks quite different.
But in the result here,
it still uses require.
Now it also transferred this code in a couple of other ways.
But that's just some internal stuff that it does.
It still uses require in the end here.
But we can write code like this.
Which is especially nice
if you're coming from the front end,
and you're used to this import syntax.
Now, of course,
in the modern JavaScript feature section,
I showed that this import from syntax
is also supported by Node.js
natively even if you're not using TypeScript,
and that's true,
and I showed you how to enable
and use it there in that separate course section.
But please note that here,
I didn't change the package json file
to enable this import syntax,
as we did have to do it in that other course section,
and with TypeScript here,
and that's something you'll see throughout this section,
we will also still be able to omit file extensions
for example, and other difference to the baked
in modern import export syntax.
I've written that it's pretty similar though,
but the difference that you need to understand
here essentially, just instead here in TypeScript
we always can
and actually should use this import from syntax,
and it is then still compiled down
to that require import syntax node uses by default.
So there will be a difference between the code we write
and decode that will actually run on the server,
and with that,
you now see that if I type a dot here,
I do get auto completion,
and now we also get help regarding the arguments
we can pass to listen,
and now for the argument,
we see that indeed listen has this handle argument
which it accepts which can be typed any,
and therefore it doesn't yell at us here.
But we can also see if we add lists
and for the first time
that there are various ways of calling it
we can cycle through these different ways here
with the arrow keys,
and that it typically one support which is a number.
So it gives us this hint here,
and that's some extra help we get in the IDE
because we're using TypeScript.
So here, I can then enter 3000,
and have valid code,
and this extra IDE support,
which we get thanks to TypeScript,
as well as this import syntax
which might be preferred
by some developers
since we're used to data import syntax
from the client,
these are already some advantages
we get from using TypeScript.
Now with that out of the way,
I promised you a simple REST API
built with Node, Express and TypeScript.
So let's now continue working on that.